Final Project Submission (#2)
usf-portal/hacking-historical-texts-final: pages/background.md

{% include nav.html %} {% include css.html %}

# Project Background

---

> The Triangular trade was by far one of the worlds most important trade route. The route funnelled the foundations of slave labor into much of the carribean and the southern United States. However, has the slave trade ever been infiltrated by acts of piracy, and to what extent did piracy hinder the progression of the Triangular trade? With our thesis in tow, we aim to understand the economic effect piracy had on Slave Voyages.

Reviewer: Okay, good. But why not throw some links/citations here for some of the main authors who talk about the triangle trade whom you've found? Even if you don't mention them by name, putting in a bibliographical reference is important normally, and doubly so on something like a background page. Digital projects usually include references to scholars when doing a detail background like this.

---

![image1]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/background picture.jpg)

## Historical Background

> Although the history of piracy is often considered small than that of the Trans-Atlantic triangular trade, the social and cultural implications of piracy shaped many of today’s understanding of pirates and their impact on the triangular trade economically. However, historians that study piracy today often study the understanding of pirates in regard to social and cultural movements. In the mid-to-late- 1900s new cultural waves of understanding clouded academia and led to some of the worlds most influential writers of pirate history. Historians of the social turn inspired by new movements for civil rights and women’s rights, formulate new lenses to view events in the past.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the history of piracy is often considered smaller than that of the Trans-Atlantic triangular trade (CITATION/LINK), the social and cultural implications of piracy shaped many of today’s understanding of pirates and their impact on the triangular trade economically. However, historians that study piracy today often study the understanding of pirates in regard to social and cultural movements. For example, In the mid-to-late 20th Century new cultural waves of understanding clouded academia and led to some of the worlds most influential writers of pirate history. Historians of the social turn inspired by new movements for civil rights and women’s rights, formulate new lenses to view events in the past (CITATION).
```

Reviewer: Here is an example of where you should have citations. Especially when you say things like "is often considered", it begs the question, by who? If you mean historians, give an example or two. Then later, you specifically say historians... you don't have to mention all, but at least give one or two names as an example.

> 

Reviewer: Again, citations should be here. I am going to stop mentioning citations from here on out, but fixing that up would make it much more academic and professional for a future portfolio.

The Social turn of the 1960s transformed pirate history into a bottom-up narrative. Meaning that historians started to write about pirates in regard to the lowliest of cabin boys rather than that of captains. The idea of studying the life of a commoner stood well with much of society at the time. Bottom-up history also includes the study of once marginalized groups of people, such as Africans and Women. 

> Fallowing the social turn in the 1960s, the cultural turn further transformed history into a more inclusive discipline in regard to poorer socio-economic classes. Marcus Rediker, a specialist in the history of pirates, takes a more Marxist approach to this history. In his article, “Under the Banner King Death”: The Social world of Anglo-American Pirates, 1712 to 1726”, Rediker explores the “cultural dimensions of piracy” through the experiences and the social hierarchy of pirates. Rediker is considered a Marxist historian because he offers an approach that favors that of the working class rising up and overthrowing the bourgeoisie. This approach mirrors the popular notion that pirates were ruthless and unlawful beings, which fit in no society except that on the sea. Unlike other historians, Rediker examines the social order of piracy, and determine the type of hierarchy a pirate ship may undergo through a socialist lens.

Reviewer: Watch the spelling, 'Fallowing'. Definitely want to iron those out if you want to use it for a resume/cv/portfolio

> Unlike social and cultural historians, political economic historians view history in a cliometrics lens. Cliometrics is the study of history through a mathematical approach. In order to prove our thesis, it is mandatory to not only see the history of piracy through a cultural or a social lens, but in terms of numbers. Alan Taylor’s history on the American Revolutionary privateers uses this methodology, examining such statistics as the amount in which how many people are aboard a ship, how much a ship can weigh, and how much someone can make while preforming acts of privateering. In Taylor’s book, American Revolutions: A Continental History, 1750-1804, he claims that American privateers led to the victory of the Revolutionary war, because they impacted the British economy drastically. Leading to Parliament reverting all naval support to the West Indies to combat this form of piracy.

Reviewer: C'mon, you mention the author by name! We talked about citing in class

The historiography of pirates outside that of historical fantasy is quite thin. There is often a blurred line when discussing the acts of piracy and privateering based on who is doing the research, and who is being affected the most. The goal of our group is to understand the history in which has been written about piracy and their effect on the Triangular trade; not only in a social and cultural aspect, but more importantly how pirates effected the trade economically.

---

## Digital Background

> At the end of April 1726, the Elizabeth, a British naval unit, was overthrown by twenty seven year old William Fly, a lowly boatswain, and the rest of the lower class crew. In this violent upheaval history marked the decline of pirate activity throughout the world. As the story of William Fly is clouded with the insatiable desire for more and more. This was Fly’s downfall, and a poetic description of piracy in the 1700’s. Fly’s story eventually ends in death, but along the way Fly had no guilt in the piracy he performed, and he did not faulter even with a noose around his neck.  There are many stories about piracy in the 1700’s however, many people would say that they are just stories and much of the narrative is elaborated to place emphasis on the fantasy of piracy.  Because of this sort of bias the digital history of pirates contains little to no actual historical evidence. In hopes of proving that pirates inflicted punishing blows to the Atlantic Slave trade we are forced to use one of very few digital databases that is available for public use. 

Reviewer: Okay, but what about other projects trying to use data visualization to, for example, visualize information about trade in the transatlantic zone? The very point of this area was to thing of digital projects in the same way that you do historiography.

There are all kinds of articles that relate to this, both in terms of geographic/chronological theme, and also in methodology. By only considering other digital projects specifically on piracy, you don't discuss all kinds of relate project include...
(1) The very database from which you got the information... kind of critical here
(2) The fact that another student from this class also created a project on this very subject, which I shared with your group

Bit of a shortfall here
